# Lessons-Projects

This repository contains sample codes and brief summaries of the projects we have done within the scope of Artificial Neural Networks course.

Fluttersight: This project creates and trains a CNN model to classify butterfly images. The dataset is downloaded from Kaggle, visualized, and missing data is processed. Images are divided into four regions, features are extracted, training/validation sets are created, and data augmentation techniques are applied. 3 convolutional CNN models are trained to classify 75 butterfly species and the accuracy metric is evaluated.

DataInsightML: This code is designed as a project that includes data analysis and machine learning processes. First, the necessary libraries (pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn, etc.) are imported and preprocessed by loading a dataset. Missing data is checked and necessary transformations are applied. Then, data visualizations are made within the scope of exploratory data analysis (EDA) and the relationships between variables are examined. If it involves a machine learning model, the data is divided into training and test sets, the model is trained and evaluated using an appropriate algorithm. Finally, the model's accuracy rates are calculated, interpreted and inferences made.

Classify and Fill: This project performs model training and evaluation using two different classification algorithms (SVM and KNN) on the Iris dataset. First, the dataset is divided into training and testing sets, and the performances of both models are examined through the confusion matrix and classification reports. Then, 10% randomly selected data in the dataset is replaced with NaN (missing) and this missing data is filled with the average of each column. Afterwards, the same model training and evaluations are performed again with the NaN-populated dataset. The results are compared to understand the effects of missing data on model performance.
